China's foreign minister has told
ministers from Arab and Islamic
countries that the world must act
urgently to stop the humanitarian crisis
in Gaza the diplomats are in Beijing
hoping International Powers including
China will pressure Israel into
accepting a ceasefire the group also
wants help in speeding up the delivery
of humanitarian Aid to Palestinians
Katrina U joins us now live from Beijing
so what's the delegation's main message
Katrina
well the international uh the
delegation's message to the
International Community is that it must
act now to quote shoulder the
responsibility to end Israel's
indiscriminate bombing of the Gaza Strip
that was the words of the Saudi uh Saudi
Arabian foreign minister and this from
the Palestinian foreign minister who's
also part of this delegation said that
he came to China to discuss the barbaric
crimes against the Palestinian people
and Israel's violation of the two-state
solution overall this deleg ation is
calling for an immediate ceasefire more
humanitarian Aid to the Gaza Strip and a
genuine political process that will lead
to a durable long-standing peace in the
region now this group which also
includes officials from Jordan Egypt and
Indonesia met with China's foreign
minister wangi this morning in Beijing
and they're really trying to uh uh meet
with officials who represent countries
who are members of the United Nations
security Council and their overall goal
here is for these countries and uh to
add to the pressure on Western Nations
who support Israel and its actions uh
that have been committed in the name of
self-defense and how Katrina has Beijing
responded what's its stance towards the
war well wangi has responded this
morning saying that he agrees that the
time is now for the International
Community to act to end the humanitarian
disaster that is currently happening in
Gaza he says that China fully supports a
two-state solution and that it will
continue to work towards restoring peace
in the region now since the fighting
began all these weeks ago Beijing has
been quite consistent in its message
it's called for an urgent ceasefire uh
more humanitarian Aid the ending and
deescalation of hostilities and the
protection of civilians in the Gaza
Strip uh China's foreign Ministry has
been quite careful not to directly
criticize Israel although we did have
China's foreign minister wangi weeks ago
say that Israel's actions there had gone
beyond the scope of self-defense now
while Beijing has been quite measured in
its words we do have to look at what has
not been said and the actions conveyed
during this meeting China really
embraced this delegation it was really a
warm welcome uh for all of these
officials and for years China has uh
said that it has stood very closely with
and in friendship with the Palestinian
people so it's hope that this warm
welcome will be quite symbolic and
create some positive momentum for this
delegation as Beijing uh is quite an
influential uh well power especially
among developing nations and Asing Asian
countries okay Katrina you bringing us
the lines there from Beijing thanks very
much Katrina